So I'm going to do live coding here to take on one of the coding challenges.
This one's going to be to add a clear button to the UI so it's not to log in and it's not to log out,
but it's just to clear the username and password fields.
Now, it's a bit of a contrived example here because our logout button does something similar, but
I want to show an example of how we can add something new to The View and have that properly propagate
through the concerns.
So let's start with the view itself and add our new button.
So I go into this game object here, which is a prefab and I'm going to add one new button and I will
call it the clear button.
I'll give it a name.
I will also give it the proper text to say clear, and then I come back here to the log in view and
that's where the login button and log out button are declared.
So I open up that class.
And I will try and keep the order right so that this button sits in the middle visually.
So I will go ahead and do that there and put it between those other two.
I tap back here letting unity recompile.
And now from the UI here I need to declare the clear button is now wired up properly.
So now the view knows about this.
I'll run the scene.
First of all, notice it does not gray out yet.
I haven't, of course, done any coding, but I can click the clear button here so it clicks, but obviously
no consequence yet.
The next thing I'd want to do with that is just kind of follow.
Well, how does the log in button work?
Well, here it is here.
So I'm just going to copy and paste and we'll do clear button and then I'll mimic the structure that's
there.
Clear button gets clicked.
That method doesn't exist yet, so I'll just come down here.
Here we go.
So we can see that inside the login button we have a custom log in event.
So in the clear button, we want to have a custom clear event.
So let's go ahead and clear that here.
We'll call it the on clear.
Here we go.
And I'm going to make that not take any parameters.
So I actually have to adjust.
And.
Because I don't need any parameters.
And as a best practice, I'll just give it its own event there.
Okay, so now we've captured the button.
Click from the UI here in The View and we've dispatched out clear.
I'll mimic how I would work in a production project, especially if I'm adding functionality that's
very similar to something else.
Notice I just looked at how the log in button worked and I copy and paste it.
We're going to follow that same pattern here.
I'm going to find usages of this.
I'm just using the code editor's view references or view usages and being able to see, well, where
does that login event get used?
What gets used inside the controller here?
So I'm just going to mimic that flow as well.
And we'll add a new method here.
So here's the controller.
And in this specific case, I want to translate this view event into a command.
So I'm going to look I'm just going to go to the source of where the submitted command is.
Look in my project here.
Actually don't need any arguments because if you think about clearing out, I don't have to say which
fields were cleared out.
I can just kind of understand that any time the clear button is clicked, don't pass any details along,
just globally clear out what needs to be cleared out.
So I'm going to take no parameters here and I will make the clear command.
So here the controller is now listening to that event and sending out a new command.
So if we were to run the scene right now, everything would compile, right?
We'd be capturing the click.
The click is getting propagated out here to controller, as you'd expect, and then it's sending out
a command, but nobody is listening to the command.
So if you think about it, who should be listening?
Who would actually handle the consequence of this?
Well, it's the view, right?
So let's go ahead and take a look at the view.
So back here In The View, we'll subscribe to that new event.
Okay, We've wired up the clear command correctly.
Now, let's actually think what should happen.
Well, it's something like what happens when we log out.
So let's look at the log out.
So logout, which I copied from here as a starter.
What it does is it just goes through and it properly sets all these fields here.
So we really want something that mimics exactly what logout does.
But for the sake of having something new, let's copy these here.
You know, just replace them.
I know we already have them there.
And I will update this to say log in cleared and for the status text, I'll just say enter username
and password, but I won't put the hint just to have something different here.
Right.
Now, one other thing is that each time that I'm toggling the log in button and log out button, I should
also think about the clear button now.
So let's just go up to the top and I'll scroll through and anywhere I see the interactive will used
update that for the clear button.
So here we have the log in button.
When we log out.
The clear button should not be enabled because when you freshly log out, everything's already cleared.
You shouldn't be able to click it.
Then when you actually hit the clear button again, you should not be able to click clear a second time
because the fields are already clear.
Each time you click, log in.
I'd argue you should be able to.
It clear there?
We don't really have a full login state here.
So some of this is just for demo sake.
And then each time you log out.
Basically we want log out and clear to behave similarly.
So log out and clear.
Yeah, I guess that's right.
Let's take a look and see how we are so far.
Mic so clear button is properly grayed out.
Now, once I start typing here, I would like the clear button to become enabled.
So let's look at that.
So I've updated here any time that those UI fields are being typed into.
I already had a unity event calling this method here, so I only allow login to be submitted if both
of the fields have something in them.
So here I want to say if either of the fields have something in them, then you would be able to hit
the clear button.
This is an implementation level detail, but it's nice to be able to show the types of thoughts and
decisions you would go through as you add a new piece of UI.
So here we are running the demo again.
Notice as I type anything here, the clear button becomes enabled.
If I remove from the field, it becomes disabled.
If I type in a little bit of the password.
And if I undo it, it becomes so we have it working properly.
Now, let's say I had both fields there.
I could log in or I could click clear and it works properly again.
I'll type that again.
Again, here we could log in or we could hit clear, and that's working properly now for us.
So I didn't give it a robust test.
I didn't make sure all the corner cases are there.
But here I wanted to demonstrate what it would be like to add a new UI element and then be able to propagate
through that.
All the concerns and here the concerns were putting the UI into the unity scene, then bringing it into
the View class itself, then listening to The View and passing that along to the controller and then
having the controller send the appropriate commands.
So we were able to do all of that.
Now I was explaining it as I'd go, but let's say this takes a few minutes.
An alternative approach would be simply the View listens to a unity event and updates itself with no
controller involved and with no commands involved.
And that's not a bad place to start.
But now none of the other concerns can capture that moment in time.
What's nice about the flow that we've done here, this kind of full blown orchestration, is that any
concern would be able to listen to?
Did the clear button just get clicked?
Sometimes you need that kind of messaging and sometimes you don't.
So it's up to you as you're navigating the waters here, learning MVC for you to decide between how
robust you want to set up the communication and propagation through the concerns.
So that's it for adding this coding assignment here into the sample.
Thanks.